[docs][tutorial] Adding "managing your own i/o" to the tutorial (#14038)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/tutorial/managing-your-own-io.mdx

---
title: "Tutorial, part seven: Managing your own I/O | Dagster Docs"
description: Learn how to use I/O managers to save your data.
---

# Tutorial, part 7: Managing your own I/O

> When building the dictionary or word counts, the `most_frequent_words` asset currently uses a static list of stopwords to decide what words to ignore. You’ll notice that despite the length of the list, many unhelpful words and prepositions are still not filtered out. You’d like to ignore those words. To scale this properly, you’ll use a CSV of stopwords found on the internet, use it for `most_frequent_words`, and update it before the refresh to ensure that your list of stopwords is up-to-date.

Reviewer: Feel free to push back on this, but my instinct would be to basically put the second paragraph first.  I.e. start by motivating what this section of the tutorial is about before getting into the nitty gritty.

Author: Astute of you. I was going back and forth on this during drafting, so I'm glad that the value of one over the other wasn't just in my head.

> While doing so, you'll take a step back and learn how to use more of Dagster's versatility without using every feature provided to you. Throughout this tutorial, you've learned multiple Dagster concepts that explain how Dagster can manage functionality on your behalf, ex. I/O managers to read and write from storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While doing so, you'll take a step back and learn how to use more of Dagster's versatility without using every feature provided to you. Throughout this tutorial, you've learned multiple Dagster concepts that explain how Dagster can manage functionality on your behalf, e.g. I/O managers to read and write from storage.
```

> When building the dictionary or word counts, the `most_frequent_words` asset currently uses a static list of stopwords to decide what words to ignore. You’ll notice that despite the length of the list, many unhelpful words and prepositions are still not filtered out. You’d like to ignore those words. To scale this properly, you’ll use a CSV of stopwords found on the internet, use it for `most_frequent_words`, and update it before the refresh to ensure that your list of stopwords is up-to-date.

Reviewer: Nitpick: "stop words"

You'll create assets to manage reading and writing from storage on your own. This is useful for multiple purposes, such as:

> - Your pipeline manages I/O on its own

Reviewer: Nit: add period for consistency

- You want to run a SQL query that creates or updates a table on the database.

> - Adjacent to the above point, your data is too large to fit into memory.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this point. Both Spark and Polars allow processing data in a streaming fashion that doesn't load it all into memory at once, and they both work with IO managers.

Author: Hmm, you're right. I'm in between whether streaming/lazyloading are edge cases or common enough that.

How about:

```suggestion
- Adjacent to the above point, your I/O manager is batch-oriented and the data loaded would not fit into memory.
```

?

Reviewer: I think whether something is batch-oriented has less to do with the IO manager and more to do with the compute framework (Pandas, Spark, etc). But I think we're already covering that when we talk about what tools they chose. So my instinct would be to leave this out.

> - You don't want to use I/O managers.

Reviewer: It's not clear to me how this is different than "your pipeline manages I/O on its own". Is it something like distinguishing between these two different cases?
- You're using libraries or command-line utilities that read/write to files and tables, and thus you don't have the choice of whether to use I/O managers.
- It's possible to write your pipeline using I/O managers, but you don't want to deal with this Dagster-specific concept. Perhaps because you already have working code, and you don't want to spend time refactoring it.

By the end of this section, you'll also have assets that depend on other assets without loading the dependent asset's data into memory.

## Step 1: Creating an asset without an I/O Manager

> Many valid situations exist where you would want to avoid using an I/O manager to write an asset back to memory. One is when the asset is already saved in the asset function definition without having to return the data.

Reviewer: "One is when the asset is already saved in the asset function definition without having to return the data." - this feels a bit circular - i.e. we're not using an I/O manager because we're not using an I/O manager.

I would say something like "we're invoking an API that writes data to disk, rather than returning it to us in memory. Therefore, we don't need an I/O manager to handle writing the data to disk."

In your `assets.py`, create a new asset called `stopwords_zip` by copying and pasting the code below:

```python file=/tutorial/managing_your_own_io/assets.py startafter=start_stopwords_zip endbefore=end_stopwords_zip
import urllib.request  # Addition: new import at the top of `assets.py`

from dagster import asset

@asset
def stopwords_zip() -> None:
    urllib.request.urlretrieve(

>         "https://docs.dagster.io/assets/stopwords.zip,data/stopwords.zip",

Reviewer: should this be two separate strings?

    )
```

In this asset, you’ll download a file from the internet. Dagster stores this file on the machine it is running on. There are two key differences between the assets you’ve written so far and this asset:

- **It doesn't have a return statement.** Because the zip file is downloaded directly onto the machine, there is no need to return data.
- **It has a `None` annotation for its return type.** This tells Dagster that it shouldn’t use an I/O manager because there is no data to write back.

These are the only two changes required to have an asset not use an I/O manager.

Refresh your code location, observe the new asset, and materialize it as you have with the previous assets. You can confirm that this works by finding the `stopwords.zip` in the `/data` directory made in the **Saving your data** section of the tutorial.

## Step 2: Depend on an asset without loading it

You’ll now unzip the zip file asset you made and extract the CSV from it. This CSV will be a new asset that depends on the zip file asset you downloaded.

> By default, an asset will load its dependencies into memory when it materializes. However, there are situations where you would want to avoid doing this. As previously mentioned, if your data is too large to fit into memory, or if you didn’t use an I/O manager for the dependency, you would not want to try loading the dependency.

Reviewer: I think the main reason that we want to avoid doing this is that we're invoking a library method – `extractall` – that operates on data that's already on disk. So there's no need for us to read/write to disk in an IO manager.

> By default, an asset will load its dependencies into memory when it materializes. However, there are situations where you would want to avoid doing this. If you're making changes directly on data in storage, such as unzipping a zip file, you don't need to load the data into memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, an asset will load its dependencies into memory when it materializes. However, there are situations where you would want to avoid doing this. If you're operating directly on data in storage, such as unzipping a zip file, you don't need to load the data into memory.
```

> To tell an asset not to load a dependency into memory when materializing, you can use the `@asset` decorator’s `non_argument_deps` parameter to establish the dependency instead of passing it in as an argument of the asset’s function definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To tell an asset not to load a dependency into memory when materializing, you can use the `@asset` decorator’s `non_argument_deps` parameter to establish the dependency, instead of including it as an argument of the asset’s function definition.
```

Copy the code below into your `assets.py` to create a new asset called `stopwords_csv`:

```python file=/tutorial/managing_your_own_io/assets.py startafter=start_stopwords_csv endbefore=end_stopwords_csv
import zipfile  # Note: remember to add imports to the top of the file

@asset(non_argument_deps={"stopwords_zip"})
def stopwords_csv() -> None:
    with zipfile.ZipFile("data/stopwords.zip", "r") as zip_ref:
        zip_ref.extractall("data")
```

> Reload your code location, observe the new `stopwords_csv` asset, and notice how it depends on the `stopwords_zip` asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the UI, reload your code location, observe the new `stopwords_csv` asset, and notice how it depends on the `stopwords_zip` asset.
```

## Step 3: Combining assets with and without I/O managers

Now that you’ve made two assets that don’t use I/O managers, you’ll connect the `stopwords_csv` asset to your `most_frequent_words` asset to use a more comprehensive list of stopwords.

> When defining an asset, you can combine assets that use I/O managers with assets that don’t. Update your `most_frequent_words` asset by replacing the static list of stopwords. Replace it with `stopwords_csv` by updating your code to match the below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When defining an asset, you can combine assets that use I/O managers with assets that don’t. Update your `most_frequent_words` asset by replacing the static list of stopwords. Replace it with `stopwords_csv` by updating your code to match what's below:
```

```python file=/tutorial/managing_your_own_io/assets.py startafter=start_updated_most_frequent_words endbefore=end_updated_most_frequent_words
import csv  # Note: Remember to add all new imports to the top

@asset(
    non_argument_deps={"stopwords_csv"},  # Addition: added the dependency
)
def most_frequent_words(topstories):
    # stopwords = ["a", "the", "an", "of", "to", "in", "for", "and", "with", "on", "is"]
    # Remove the line above

    # Replace the with the two lines below
    with open("data/stopwords.csv", "r") as f:
        stopwords = {row[0] for row in csv.reader(f)}

# ...

# Keep the rest of the function the same
```

To validate that this worked, materialize your entire asset graph to see `most_frequent_words` depend on the `stopwords_csv` asset

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

## Next steps
```
